Hi. I'm Lucy, and
I'm the guidance counselor here at Port
Elgin Regional School.
And I'm here to talk to you today
about classroom circles.
So, a couple years ago,
admin, Allocated guidance.
Half an hour a week in each classroom
to do a classroom circle.
So that's how it came about.
And I just didn't
ever really do a circle before.
So I had to do some research on
how to do it.
And then admin just let me run with it.
So that's been really fun.
So what a classroom circle looks like is
I will I have half an hour.
I will go in.
Every circle is kind of laid out the same.
So students know what to expect.
I'll go in.
I'll start everyone
sitting in a circle already.
I'll start with, a meditation
or a visualization
or a breathing exercise of some kind,
just to ground everyone and get
everyone ready to ready for circle
and bring them into the present.
Then we'll review cycle expectations.
So my expectations are that students will,
oh, only
one voice in the circle at a time.
So that's the student
with the talking piece that is sharing.
Students should speak from the heart
and listen from the heart.
So what that kind of means is that
students will kind of speak their truth,
and that they'll listen respectfully
to others and non-judgmental.
You just be like, oh, that's kind of cool.
That's different from how I feel.
But that's okay.
Or it could be
the same as other students feel.
And then also that this is a safe space.
So what's said in
the circle stays in the circle.
So they shouldn't be like making fun
of what people have said on the playground
or anything like that.
And then after we've talked
about circle expectations, we will do.
I would you write the question
which is very important.
The students love the
would you rather question.
So for example, or what good
would you rather question?
I usually get the kids to help me
come up with them
because they're a lot more creative.
The lawyers.
So, the best one I ever had was
would you rather, be a dolphin
with a giraffe neck or,
tiger that can fly and breathe fire.
And so you just pass the time piece
rounding.
Just say which one you draw. That.
And if you'd like to share why,
you can share.
Why after that.
That's when we get into more
of the more deep nitty gritty stuff.
So this year, I've done a lot of,
self-esteem
because it's not we noticed
that's something that needs that,
we would like to raise
in the building, like,
but between students.
So we've talked a lot about self-esteem.
So for example, in the older years,
we might if we're doing
a circle of self-esteem, we might watch,
maybe related to social media.
So we might watch a video, on
an advertisement or a picture
that's been really edited
and doesn't look like the original person.
And then we'll talk about, like,
how it makes you feel, or if you feel
that you have to edit your pictures
before posting on social media or,
if if you feel like you compare yourself
to others online
or have to compare like just general
how you're feeling kind of things
and we just share and everyone's
encouraged to share, but they can pass
if they want so they don't have to share.
And then I'll end the circle
with the silly boy usually.
So I have this little bowl that
that sings, and students close their eyes
and we listen to the singing ball.
And then when they can't hear it anymore,
they they open their eyes.
And that's how we end the circle.
Yeah.
Some tips and tricks
I have for circle would be invite
the teacher or actually add to that
any adult in the room.
Because kids, believe it or not, like,
really want to get to know you.
You don't have to share anything too
personal, but, it's great modeling.
If you can share how you're feeling too.
And it also builds connections
with the students, too.
So maybe at the start of the year,
it would be great to ask some like
get to know your questions. Like who?
Your favorite singer is
or if you have a favorite movie.
So kids really get to know each other
and the teacher as well.
So they love that. That would be a tip.
Also,
it's a great way to model for teachers
if they ever want to do a classroom
circle,
then they can lay it out
exactly how I had it laid out.
So they can do one at any time.
And oh,
bring a variety of talking pieces.
So I have like a little bag
that I carry and kids know
if I'm coming down the hall with my bag
all this way and go into a circle.
And I have different talking pieces,
like stuffies.
I have,
this little, like, bird, wooden bird.
I try and do a few nature things,
so there's maybe a pinecone in there,
a stick that I could give me, and a rock.
And I just lay them out
in the middle of the circle on a scarf.
And kids can use that to look at,
if it's like a heavy topic.
And they don't want to make eye contact.
Or maybe their culture is, doesn't
encourage eye contact, and they can just
look at the talking pieces
in the middle of the circle while
while the group is discussing.
And I also have a student pick
a talking piece too,
so they can pick whichever
talking piece that they want.
They're also welcome to bring their own
talking piece to put in the middle
if they would do so.
But my rule is once it goes in the middle,
it stays in the middle.
You can't touch the talking pieces.
And another tip that I have
would be
it might be a little bit awkward at first.
Kids aren't really used
to sharing circles.
And at first
you might get a lot of passes
if it's not a super fun question
like more deeper ones.
But by the end of the year, kids
know what to do
and they are very more comfortable
sharing.
And yeah, so stick with it.
And they're very disappointed
if you don't do a circle like they
they say they don't want to do a circle,
but they look forward to it.
It really.